                      Replace Commander 32 v3.00
                Copyrighted 2003 by Robert F. Gage II
                        All Rights Reserved
                       ---------------------

Description:
------------
This program is a command line program that will search and replace
text strings in text files.  It can replace a string with another
feather case or non case sensitive.  It can find and remove lines of
text out of a file or add lines to a file.


Legal Mumbo Jumbo:
-------------------
This program comes without warrantee of any kind!  The author,
distributor, or any other person or company can not and will not be
responsible for the use of this program.

Any problems that are encountered with this program should be send
by EMail to the author as soon as possible.  And the author will
make corrections as needed.


Program Use:
------------
The program may be used free of charge to both public and privet
company at no charge.  It may also be used for any purpose as long
as this text files accompanies the program and that the program is
not used for any illegal use.


Syntax:
-------
Replac32 "search string" "replace string" workfile [options]
Replac32 "search string" replacefile workfile /S [options]
Replac32 "search string" workfile /R [options]

General use:
Replace Commander will search through the file "filename" for the
occurrence of the "search string" and then replace it with the
"replace string".  Exceptions to this is when "/R" or /S" options
are used.


"search string"        
The string that will be looked for in the file "filename".
                       
"replace string"       
The string that will be replace the search string.

workfile              
The file that the search will be performed on.

replacefile
The file that will be used to replace that found string. "/S" (only)

Search Types:
/S
When this option is added then one must supply a file name of a text
file that will be used as the replace string.  When the search string
is found it will be replaced with the first line of text in the 
replacefile.

/F
This search type will replace every occurrence of the search string
with the entire contents of the replacefile.

/R
When the search string is found, the entire line of text that is
found will be simply removed.  There is no "replace string" used
with this options.

Options...
/I                     
Will ignore the case of the item that is searched for.
(searches are case sensitive by default)

/L
When the search string is found it will first remove the entire line
of text that the search string is in and will add "replace string"
to the line that was removed.

/E
Will add the replace string to the end of the line of test that has
the search string in it.

/O #
Will search for the occurrence of the string but will only replace
the occurrence line specified by #.  So if the search string is
found on 6 different lines in a file then it will replace only the
search string that is on the # found line.

/N #
Will search for the occurrence only on line number #.


Example:
--------
If you wish to add your program to the path setting in autoexec.bat
then you could use the following commands.  For example I use
"c:\program" as the path to our program:


Our current autoexec.bat file looks like this:

---------------

@echo off

path=c:\windows\;c:\windows\command\;c:\program;c:\other

c:\windows\win

---------------


To remove the "c:\program" out of the path setting we would use the
following commands:

replace "c:\program" "" c:\autoexec.bat /i
replace ";;" ";" c:\autoexec.bat

Note:  The second replace command is to replace the two ; in the
path line that will be formed by removing c:\program.  We could use
;c:\program on the first command but this would be pointless because
it could be at the beginning and not have a ; in front of it.

To add "c:\program" you could use the following command:

echo path=%path%;c:\program >>c:\autoexec.bat

But in the case to this autoexec.bat file you would run into a
problem because windows would be executed before the path setting
would be set.  So you could use the following replace options to fix
that:

replace "path=" "path=c:\program;" c:\autoexec.bat /i /o 1

If you would like to add your path option to the end you could use:

replace "path=" ";c:\program" c:\autoexec.bat /i /o 1 /e

on both of the previous commands I used the "/o 1" option.  This is
incase there are mutable lines of "set path=" in the autoexec.bat
file, it would only perform this operation on the first one found.

Please note that it is also possible for the path statement to be
set using the "Path" command and thus you would not have the
existence of "path=" in your autoexec.bat file.  For this reason we
could use the following options commands:

replace "path " "set path=" c:\autoexec.bat /i

we would do this command before the other commands.  It would then
convert any path command over to the "set path=" option..

Just keep in mind that the search is performed on ALL lines in the
autoexec.bat file so if the autoexec.bat file has other statements's
that include the string "path " or "path=" it could mess things up
for you.  But this is just given as an example.


What's different with Replace Commander 32 and non 32?
------------------------------------------------------
Basically Replace Commander 32 is a windows95/NT and newer 32bit
program.  The main advantage with the 32 version is the ability
to support long file names!


Known Problems
--------------
Because Replace Commander works on standard ascii files (carriage
return and line feed for each line), it will always make sure
that the workfile ends with a blank line.


Contact the author!
-------------------
Bobby Gage
http://bobby.mydis.org
bgage@frederickmd.com